'\"
'\" Copyright 1989-1992 Regents of the University of California
'\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
'\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby
'\" granted, provided that this notice appears in all copies.
'\" The University of California makes no representations about
'\" the suitability of this material for any purpose.  It is
'\" provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
'\" 
'\" $Header: /user6/ouster/tcl/man/RCS/AssembCmd.3,v 1.4 93/01/31 15:35:27 ouster Exp $ SPRITE (Berkeley)
'\" 
.so man.macros
.HS Hax_AssembleCmd hax
.BS
.SH NAME
Hax_CreateCmdBuf, Hax_AssembleCmd, Hax_DeleteCmdBuf \- buffer pieces of Hax commands
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <hax.h>\fR
.sp
Hax_CmdBuf
\fBHax_CreateCmdBuf\fR()
.sp
\fBHax_DeleteCmdBuf\fR(\fIbuffer\fR)
.sp
char *
.VS
\fBHax_AssembleCmd\fR(\fIbuffer\fR, \fIstring\fR)
.VE
.sp
int
\fBHax_CommandComplete\fR(\fIcmd\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Hax_CmdBuf *string;
.AP Hax_CmdBuf buffer in
Token for a command buffer (the result of some previous call to
\fBHax_CreateCmdBuf\fR).
.AP char *string in
Additional piece of command input to be added to anything currently
buffered.
.AP char *cmd in
.VS
Command string to test for completeness.
.VE
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
These procedures provide a convenient mechanism for assembling
Hax commands from an input source where command boundaries are not
obvious.  For example, if input is being read from a terminal, a user
may type commands that span multiple lines.  In situations like
this, \fBHax_AssembleCmd\fR can be called with the individual lines
as they are received.  It buffers the lines internally and returns
full commands when they are complete.
.PP
A command buffer is created by calling \fBHax_CreateCmdBuf\fR, and
it is deleted by calling \fBHax_DeleteCmdBuf\fR.  There may be any
number of command buffers for a particular program or even for a
particular interpreter;  in most cases there should be one
buffer for each independent source of command input.
.PP
When input arrives from a source you should call \fBHax_AssembleCmd\fR,
passing it the new input as the \fIstring\fR argument.
\fBHax_AssembleCmd\fR will add the new input to anything currently
buffered in \fIbuffer\fR.  If the information now buffered represents
a complete Hax command (i.e. there are no unclosed quotes, braces,
brackets, or variable references),
then \fBHax_AssembleCmd\fR returns a pointer to the complete command
and arranges for the buffer to be cleared on the next call to
\fBHax_AssembleCmd\fR.  If the command is still incomplete (because,
for example, there are unmatched braces) then \fBHax_AssembleCmd\fR
returns NULL.  \fBHax_AssembleCmd\fR keeps a private copy of the
command being assembled, so that the caller need not preserve the
contents of \fIstring\fR between calls to \fBHax_AssembleCmd\fR.
\fBHax_AssembleCmd\fR supports commands of arbitrary length (up to
the total memory limit imposed by the operating system, if any).
.PP
.VS
The procedure \fBHax_CommandComplete\fR takes a Hax command string
as argument and determines whether the command string is complete
in the sense defined above.
If so then it returns 1; otherwise it returns 0.
.VE

.SH KEYWORDS
assemble, buffer, partial command
