'\"
'\" Copyright 1989 Regents of the University of California
'\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
'\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby
'\" granted, provided that this notice appears in all copies.
'\" The University of California makes no representations about
'\" the suitability of this material for any purpose.  It is
'\" provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
'\" 
'\" $Header: /user6/ouster/tcl/man/RCS/CrtInterp.3,v 1.5 93/01/31 15:35:30 ouster Exp $ SPRITE (Berkeley)
'\" 
.so man.macros
.HS Hax_CreateInterp hax
.BS
.SH NAME
Hax_CreateInterp, Hax_DeleteInterp \- create and delete Hax command interpreters
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <hax.h>\fR
.sp
Hax_Interp *
\fBHax_CreateInterp\fR()
.sp
\fBHax_DeleteInterp\fR(\fIinterp\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Hax_Interp *interp
.AP Hax_Interp *interp in
Token for interpreter to be destroyed.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBHax_CreateInterp\fR creates a new interpreter structure and returns
a token for it.  The token is required in calls to most other Hax
procedures, such as \fBHax_CreateCommand\fR, \fBHax_Eval\fR, and
\fBHax_DeleteInterp\fR.
Clients are only allowed to access a few of the fields of
Hax_Interp structures;  see the Hax_Interp
and \fBHax_CreateCommand\fR man pages for details.
The new interpreter is initialized with no defined variables and only
the built-in Hax commands.  To bind in additional commands, call
\fBHax_CreateCommand\fR.
.PP
\fBHax_DeleteInterp\fR destroys a command interpreter and releases all of
the resources associated with it, including variables, procedures,
and application-specific command bindings.  After \fBHax_DeleteInterp\fR
returns the caller should never again use the \fIinterp\fR token.

.SH KEYWORDS
command, create, delete, interpreter
