'\"
'\" Copyright 1989 Regents of the University of California
'\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this
'\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby
'\" granted, provided that this notice appears in all copies.
'\" The University of California makes no representations about
'\" the suitability of this material for any purpose.  It is
'\" provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.
'\" 
'\" $Header: /user6/ouster/tcl/man/RCS/History.3,v 1.6 93/01/31 15:35:36 ouster Exp $ SPRITE (Berkeley)
'\" 
.so man.macros
.HS Hax_InitHistory hax
.BS
.SH NAME
Hax_InitHistory, Hax_RecordAndEval \- procedures for managing history list
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
\fB#include <hax.h>\fR
.sp
.VS
\fBHax_InitHistory\fR(\fIinterp\fR)
.VE
.sp
int
\fBHax_RecordAndEval\fR(\fIinterp, cmd, flags\fR)
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Hax_Interp *interp;
.AP Hax_Interp *interp in
Hax interpreter in which history facilities are being used.
.AP char *cmd in
Command (or sequence of commands) to execute.
.AP char flags in
Flags to pass to \fBHax_Eval\fR (normally 0).  If -1, then the
command is not executed;  it's just recorded.
.BE

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The procedure \fBHax_InitHistory\fR is invoked to enable the
.VS
history facilities in an interpreter (by default there is no
\fBhistory\fR command in an interpreter).
After this command has been executed the \fBhistory\fR
command will be available in \fIinterp\fR and the history facilities
will be initialized.
\fBHax_InitHistory\fR is invoked automatically by
\fBHax_RecordAndEval\fR, so it need not be invoked explicitly
unless the \fBhistory\fR command is to
be used before \fBHax_RecordAndEval\fR has been called.
.VE
.PP
\fBHax_RecordAndEval\fR is invoked to record a command on the history
list and then execute it.  Programs that do not wish to use the history
mechanism should not call \fBHax_RecordAndEval\fR;  they should call
\fBHax_Eval\fR instead.  Furthermore, \fBHax_RecordAndEval\fR should
only be called with top-level commands typed by the user, since the
purpose of history is to allow the user to re-issue recently-invoked
commands.
.PP
\fBHax_RecordAndEval\fR does three things.
First, it calls \fBHax_InitHistory\fR to initialize history for the
interpreter \fIinterp\fR, if this hasn't already been done.
Second, \fBHax_RecordAndEval\fR saves \fIcommand\fR in
the history list for \fIinterp\fR, making a new event to hold the
command.
Third, \fBHax_RecordAndEval\fR executes the command by passing it
and \fIflags\fR to \fBHax_Eval\fR.  If \fIflags\fR is -1 then only
the first two steps are taken;  the command will not be executed.

.SH KEYWORDS
command, event, execute, history, interpreter, record
